See cultures as a tree like structure, with a culture group a cultures
containing streams.
So we would have Terran imperial culture group, with the sol-system/core culture
containing a martian, Terran and lunar stream.

This would all have attributes/ tenets, so the Terran imperial culture group
has the "sacred home world", "imperium sine fine" and "xenophobia" as
core tenets, meaning all cultures adhering to it have to contain 2
of this 3 as core tenets.

The sol-system/core culture replicates them (since it is the founding culture)
and also adds additional tenets like "grand fleet" and "industrial nightmares".
It streams then add a third layer/iteration to that like "garden world" for
Earth instead of "industrial nightmares" or "science haven" for Luna
instead of "grand fleet".

The stream still need to contain the core tenets of sol-system/core culture
but can mix up the rest a little bit.
Basically every child has to overlap with all its parent to at least n% otherwise
it has to start its own tree (or raise up a level depending on the violation).
So if the earth would not sufficiently overlap with sol-system/core culture, 
but still have overlap wit Terran imperial we would get a new earth culture
in the Terran imperial culture group.

Every culture group has a main culture determining the core tenets.
This is usually the founding culture until another one has a higher culture
output.
So if the Terran Colonial culture would produce lets say 125% of the cultural
output of the sol-system/core culture for x turns it would become the dominant
culture.
This might lead to a split where other culture no longer sharing core tenets
are banished into their own culture group (This should be reversible so probably
a common heritage should be inserted above the culture group, so all
the culture groups know where they are coming from).

The same is true for cultures and streams. One stream is dominant,
in our example the martian one.
Every stream then has an associated world, determined by cultural output.

If a stream is big enough relative to its culture and culture group,
it may split given, that it has two reasonably separated or populated worlds.
So either they are at different ends of the galaxy and can not communicate
with each other or they have a very high cultural output.
In that case the local culture starts accumulating until a new stream is born.
The tenets of this stream should be determined by the attributes of this world,
so a garden world giving garden world tenets like "beautiful architecture"
or "one with nature" while an industrial world gives "Endless slums"
or "industrial nightmares".

I implicitly mentioned here that all planets not leading a stream do resist
the influence of this stream with local culture depending on population
and communication infrastructure.
This usually just makes stuff slightly problematic like decreasing efficiency
of taxation or something like that (just because the guys on that mining world
do play different jazz does not mean the want to be independent, that comes
if everything is different).
This also punishes players for expanding since they
either have to deal with a multicultural empire and all the administrative
and internal diplomatic/political problems
or build a lot of communication infrastructure on all their planets to combat
this.

I also should think of a way for the player to at least influence the streams
to facilitate merges or generate advantages for the player like a industrial
and a warrior stream.

An ambitious player might even engineer specialized cultures within their
empire.
This could give a good feature for long term optimization,
since cultural shifts should be slow.
