# Technology colonies

Binding tech levels to colonies allows an more natural flow of technology.
It also allows all organizations within a colony to use this technology, 
which might be a bad thing, so further restricting logic should be put in place.

To simplify storage there should be a general tech level,
implying the accessibility of certain technologies
and slots for special technology, permitting specialization.
This slots could be tied to holdings directly solving the access problem.
(Remember all holdings not hold by anyone are hold by the controller of the
colony)

So all tech buildings owned by own organization form a pool.
The organization can then either use this research pool to :
1. Contribute to research projects.
2. Increase the general tech level of the colony making more tech available.
2. Give itself a buff above the general tech level of the colony.
	(This method should for obvious reasons be less efficient (50% malus))
3. Create a slot for a special technology.

The size of a slot should be determined by that technology.
Also if the pool shrinks the contributions should disappear as listed above.
So active research first, general knowledge second and slots last.
(Biggest slot first would probably realistic since the disappearance
is probably cause by a crisis like a disease or orbital bombardment
and high-tech is lost first under this circumstances).

The purpose of the slots is specialization like a farming-world holding a very
high farming-tech and a shipyard colony plans for weapons and ships.

This also hints to a split in research output into active research
and maintenance for existing tech.
Also a central technology repository would be interesting.
Forcing organization to clone technology from a existing source into a slot.
This could be:
1. An artifact as described in another note.
2. A world that already has a technology in this slot.
3. A world that has high general tech levels.

This also implies a rework of the tech tree,
since it would become part of the map.

The research fields would now be held in slots to allow cloning of
their subfields and connection between technologies would allow cloning
of a lesser form.
This kind of misses the point.

They could give bonus on research speed for other technologies.
So having a high physics level in a colony makes researching lasers easier.
Research is now conducted by contributing points to a slot and making it bigger,
thereby increasing its level for normal technologies like Physics.

Projects would be conducted by reserving a slot and filling it up with new tech.
The continuous improvement of parts would be done with two slots.
One holding the original part the other one the new part.
After the project researching the new part is finished
the better part/component/reactor/whatever is kept
and the other slot freed for an new attempt.

The undirected science/theology research etc. could now be represented,
by a certain fraction of slots allocated to random projects.
Here it has to be made sure the player does not destroy slots until
he achieves the desired result.

The general tech could still be somewhat tech tree like by allowing
to weight different parts or filling it with slots.
So research of the player determines if the general pool gives them
more mining or farming tech depending on their research projects.

The general tech could also consist of slots for each general technology
associated with a real slot in the wide world giving its max value.
But triggering an exhausting search if it is destroyed.
An better option might be to associate a bunch of research
and research storage facilities  with the tech and use their sum for growth
and max value.
Allowing worlds specialized one research topic.
It should also be possible to pool all facilities into one pool
and do a weighted spread at which point we are back at a weighed
tech tree.
This pooling approach could also be used to create (more expensive slots).
Basically it behaves like the colony pool formed by the different facilities.

This is kind of elegant since if this is the default it becomes a very simple
system:
Research goes in is distributed onto fields
and they are filled up to a maximum.
Filling speed and maximum governed by distributing weights.

The system also allows do do much more complex and weird stuff if the player
desires to,
without giant problems (That I could see at the moment).

So tldr:
Colonies get a general tech level everybody could can use.
(The content depending on the controller of the colony)
Every organization having a research holding in the colony can get a boost on
this. 
(And maybe access to their own tech if it is higher than that of the controller)
They can also get slots to store special to specialize their holding.
This slots can be public but do not have to be public (slot owner decides).
The Technology of an organization accessible by the general tech level of
it is determined by linked slots and a weighed pool. 
(The weights of the pool are determined by the organization).
