Program structure
    dependencies
        All dependecies have to be updated an adjusted to the new directory system
        probably i should use a macro for this
    pointer forwarding
        using pointers to froward objects in vectors could be a good idea
    files
        splitting everything in declaration header (.h) and definition (.cpp)
        allowing to program with less declaration trouble
        DO EXPERIMENTS FIRST

errors.h 
    and revise overflows, they probably don't work....
    especially the pop_size_total which add size could cause problems....
    because n*signed long int could be bigger then signed long int
    probably i will have to create a class just to store numbers bigger then 
    sigend long int

    the error_path has to be added to all classes and functions

grudges
    empires should have grudges to give them additional wargoals and bonuses
    grudges should be projectable, to worsen relation between empires. (e.g.
    The Outer Union has a grudge because of a first contact war against the Lorm-empire.
    Now it could retaliate against the Lorm in a second war or project the grudge onto the 
    Rim-union,worsening the relation between Lorm-empire and Rim-union. (for example to 
    avoid a trade deal or military alliance.)
    e.g for loosing a planet or a battel or not getting a specific trade deal

acknowledged claims
    every claim wit a certain severity can be made public. Other empires ca accept the claim 
    or depending on severity and diplomatic standing deny it for a cultural and political points penalty.
    Only acknowledged claims can be used as war claims. The war will be seen as just by every 
    empire/federation, that accepted it.

diplomatic relation
    should exist between independent empires (not sector administrations and tiny vassals and so on)
    so every federation or empire object can have diplomatic representation rights, wich allow it to
    form diplomatic realitons outside of the empire or federation. (federation laws to restrict this)
    This relation is simple a value  between the two empires (so datawise a integer and two links)
    influenced by actions and events maybe modifiers (to avoid just bribing relation without end).
    Maybe instead of an integer a lsit of modifiers.

ground combat
    flanks in hex
        clockwise a unit has (clockwise) a front, a right-front-flank, a right-rear-flank,
        a rear, a left-rear-flank and a left-front-flank.
        While ships use a shot simulation modell ground units use a simplified modell, because
        this is better suited to modell tank and infatry groups. They have 6 values corresponding
        to their 6 sides in a hex field, based on blueprint, formation, training.....
    battellines
        to allow the formation of battellines on hex fields some adaptions are necessary
        battellines are introduced as an ability that buffs the right-front-flank of a unit
        with the same ability to the left, if it is facing the same direction and buffs the
        left-front-flank of a uit to the right, if it is facing the same direction. 
        Both flanks are buffed to the front value of the buff-receiving unit.
        The ability could also allow to project the value of the front to one of the front
        flanks, while projecting the rear value to the other rear-flank, making the unit 
        "4-sided". This would allow 3 additional lines. where the line is facing a edge of 
        an hex.
    tiles
        elevation (5 variants)
            important is the elevation change, so i would categorize in plain, flat, hills, canyons,
            mountains            
        vegetation/trees(/rocks /buildings /waves for desert/volcanic, urban and sea) (1+ (3 * x) variants)
            because species have diffrent sizes it would be unrealistic if every infatry-men could
            hide in the same forest. This makes it necesary to introduce vegetation levels,
            variing in density (none; spare, medium, thick) and size (0.5m; 1m; 2m; 5m; 10m; 20m; etc.)
            (in case i run out of integers for tiles i could use a palnet vegetation size-factor,
            scaling all vegetation up)
        biome (10 variants)
            here i would use volcanic, urban, desert, snow, hot, temperate, river, sea/ocean, molten sea/lava; fortification
        savemethod
            biggest steps are biomes, the elevation, the vegetation density, then vegetation height
        example-list (assuming vegetation heighte steps are 1m; 2m; 5m;)
            number:biome-elevation-density-heigth   = ingame name (Descripton) 
                0:  volcanic-plain-none             = molten-plain (A perfect plain formed by cooling magma....)
                1:  volcanic-plain-spare-1m         = lava-lands (A plain of cooled lava sparkeld with 1m height boulders, formed...)
                2:  volcanic-plain-spare-2m         = lava-lands (A plain of cooled lava sparkeld with 2m height boulders, formed...)
                3:  volcanic-plain-spare-5m         = lava-lands (A plain...5m...)
                4:  volcanic-plain-medium-1m        = lava-lands (A plain...clutterd with 1m...)
                5:  volcanic-plain-medium-2m        = lava-lands (A plain...clutterd...2m...)
                6:  volcanic-plain-medium-5m        = lava-lands (A plain...5m...)
                7:  volcanic-plain-thick-1m         = lava-lands (A plain...filled with 1m...)
                8:  volcanic-plain-thick-2m         = lava-lands (A plain...2m...)
                9:  volcanic-plain-thick-5m         = lava-lands (A plain...5m...)
                10: volcanic-flat-none              = lava-lands (Relative flat terrain with small dunes and...)
                11: volcanic-flat-spare-1m          = lava-lands (Relative flat terrain with small piles of rocks, smaller than 1m. ...)
                ....
                19: volacnic-flat-thick-5m          = lava-lands (Relative flat trerrain dominated by 5m heigh rock piles. ...)
                20: volcanic-hills-none             = volcanic-foothills (bare hills, formed of molten rock. Looking like a black, frozen ocean ...)
                ...
                30. volcanic-canyons-none           = fire-valleys (Deep canyons flooded with magma, make tis region a impressive and nearly impassable site. ...)
                ...
                40. volcanic-mountains-none         = Volvano (A giant fire spying mountain. Outbreaks are regulary and transform the step slopes in ...)
                ...
                50: urban-plain-none                = plaza (A wide open plaza. Perfect for military parades or fairs. A giant monument to the achivments of...)
                51: urban-plain-spare-1m            = parkinglot (A wide parkinglot, with a few vehicles scattered across. ...)
                ...
                60: urban-flat-none                 = rooftops (The hive city below is sealed of by this roofs. They form a plain with...)
                ...
                100:desert-plain-none               = Sandsea (An endless palin of sand. Sand. Sand. Sand.Sand everywhere.)
                (results in 500 diffrent tile types)
            The urban thing should maybe remodelled because buildings will be present on the map. So maybe urban will have no vegetation? 
            Or the vegetation describes things like satues and stairs and so on...)
    ground_attacks
        spray patterns look into space weapons but consider indirect fire 
        (the ships have no indirect fire only direct one)

ground units trannsport
	ground units on transports schould consume supply every turn,
	so they could starve to death during transport increasing the logistical
	challenge
	they should use supply in general I would say

Storys
    attach short descriptions and history files to colonys and planets

cosmetical_species
    stores information about species like horns, claws and other appearance things

Warps methods/drives
    Have a medium like blackhole, warp, streamlane or hyperspace, slipspace
        (allow specific breakdown of medium by event, 
        some have none/real space like orbital accelerators)
    Have a target method like Gravity well, Beacon or point-to-point (Jump gate/could be just a precise beacon)
        (to allow diffrent systems like jumping to the sun or to a station or to coordinates. 
        Of course there should be an interference free variant named real space)
    Have a travel type like jump, wormhole, stream or flight
        (e.g jump is an instant transport from one point to another with cooldown,
        Starruler 2's slipstream tears and the jumpgates in stargate are wormholes,
        Hyperlanes are streams and starwars hyperdrive is a flight just like normal sub light-travel)
    Have a speed factor
        Making hyperdrive faster then sublight-travel
    Have a range factor
        ensuring someone can't insta jump everywhere unless with one specific dangerous device
    Have a risk factor
        Allowing ships to disappear in a wormhole and demons to invade through the warp
    Have a breakdow risk factor 
        to make them more or less reliable in general so sometimes a warpstorm makes travel impossible
    Probably something like a use factor to cause problems 
        eg everybody is using warpdrives and the warp looks like swiss cheese extradimensional invaders spawn
    Something to support weather like warpstorms traveling trough the galaxy
    Probablay something to support gatenetworks 
        to accidentaly reconnect them with each other or to an alien dimension (by an event)
        or allow to connect gates permanetly between to empires or to your allies

special projects
    general
        they have points which are slowly filled up and yield a reward after
        they are finished
    scientifical projects
        this projects give a special technology after they are finished
        points could be created by special research institutes/stations
        (LHC-style) or hunting space monsters etc.
    military
        e.g giant ships or stations or sips with special bonuses

technology
    inheritance
        inherited by sud empires if option set. To enable empire wide research.
    techlevel
        value of a clony describing its development.
        either a general value or one value for a techfield (like physics or medicine or mining...)
        The techlevel should be determined by general education funds of the empire (costing political influence)
        and local modifiers, like buildings.
    Example 
        Colony A is part of empire B in empire/federation C
        C has mining tech 5.
        B inherits minig tech 5 (because it is jsut a sector administration and the federation laws work that way)
        C is also responsible for education funds and has an education efficency of 42%
        giving A 5*0.42 = 2.1  => mining tech 2 (always rounding down even if it hurts.) 
        Leaving a difference of 3 to the empire level.
        Because of the Imperial-Comm-array on Core world D A gets +0.1 techlevel like all colonys in the system
        Also the system-university contributes 0.1 techlevel.
        On A is also a colonial university giving +0.1 a planetary scool +0.05 and a planetary adinistartion centre +0.05
        so A has a local techlevel of 0.1+0.1+0.1+0.05+0.05=0.4.
        giving it 3*0.4=1.2 => minigtech +1 giving it a total miningtechlevel of 3

corporations
    efficency
        determines the shareholdervalue and output of facilities
    indepnedence
        Should have varing degrees of independce, which makes them more efficent but might trigger bad events like a scandal
        it should also give them a wider spread for all vlaues like shareholdervalue, morals and efficeny 
    shareholdervalue
        should have a sharholdervalue, if this value is high the company facilities can be build cheaper and efficency will slowly 
        decrease. if it is low efficency increases but there is a chance for bancruptcy, it also makes faciliteis more expensiev
        to build. Can be suibsided with political power to increase sharehodler value and avoid bancruptcy
    morals
        a hidden value that gives more efficency and causes negative effents like illegal research scandals, illegal slave pits and
        so on. Should be counteres by investigations, which cost political influence
    Sector
        determines which buildings can be build like mines, factorys, colonies or all of tem for (Giga-corps)
        Corporations should range from simple manufacturing companys to giant behemoths, which could colonise a whole system 
        with their facilites and deliver the full output like a regular system.
    buildings
        -have unique buildings, if there are to many companies they should be consolidated into one building type and used an 
        average value to avoid problems (max building id is currently unsigend shor int)
        -the buildings should not require workers, so theire efficency is lower then normal buildings, but because of the
        lacking workforcerequirement it should be lower
        mine
            produces ore....
        mining-complex
            produces minerals ore products like goods or shipparts
        factory
            produces goods and uses raw resources 
        research lab
            produces research for political influence or goods
        colonies
            prodcue political influence
        media-hub
            produces cultural inflcuenc for politcal influence or goods
    intelligence can not be produced by corporations, their higher base efficency is countered by the random efficency-fluctuations,
    and the possibility of bancruptcy, which deletes all company buildings
    they should also have their own fleets, tarding and military fleest for the big companys 
        
Empires 
    should be build like trees 
        this might need a rework of the claims and other classes as the one empire one id approach with a unsigned short it might become difficult 
        So basically one thing is controlling another the "Sol-system" (lowest level system administration 
        (this actually contains the links to the colonys)) is part of the "Sol-sector"(first empire like object),
        which is part of the "Terran-Core-Systems" (second empire like object), which is part of the "Human federation"
        (third empire like object and in this example the player level), which is part of the "Second Rim Alliance"
        (fourth empire like object and independent)
            So each object has some authority over the subjects below. So for example if the "Second Rim Alliance" 
            declares a war against another party all lower entities will be part of this war. But maybe the "Second Rim Alliance"
            lacks the right to maintain and command a fleet so the next lower parts will have to lead the war while the 
            "Second Rim Alliance" can't do anything. So it can essentially serve as a platform for multiple player empires
            to coordinate things like war, trade or research be giving it the right to collect a research point tax and invest it 
            with set rules (for example all members vote one research projects or a president proposes a research plan)
            Of course the "Second RIm Allinace could also just collect all tech and redistribute it to the lower parts.
            But this would waste research poinst if two parts research the same thing.
        Also the objects can move within this tree gaining independece from the part above them and stepping up the ladder
            e.g. by a war which is allowed by the upper level (which could be a weak research alliance)
            or by being elevated by a higher part if this holds the rights to do so 
            (a player or the ai restructuring their empire for example, a defensive allinace would very likley lack this right)
        For interactions below the object uses it's political influence points, for the equal or levels above it uses cultural influence points
        Best part: it schould be possible to be part of multiple empirelike objects 
            leading to conflicting rights and forcing someone to leave an empire like object or fighting a war over the changed law
            of course being part of other empire like objects should be forbidable
    specialized colonies
        colonies can be designated for a special purpose. Then are occupied by a capital like thing. Allowing to construct
        builings with empire wide bonuses and giving a bonus based on size (or always occuping a whole planet).
        e.g. garden planet for the imperial elite, vacation resort for the whole empire, galactic administration planet (like trantor)
    capital
        a object attached to the empire storing special capital building like monuments or ceremonial weapon chamber and
        the location of imperial institutions like the imperial archives or the imperial university.(by link to colony)
    institutions
        provide bonuses for the empire and huge bonuses for the system and colony in which they are located 
        (but need a lot of goods and space)
        they are conquerable
            the conquereo is get's an appropriate short time reward like tech or science points for conquering the university
            (this rewards should scale to prevent the HUGE-HUGE-Federation to conquer an tiny minor and get a lot of science points
            (the tech-differences or political differences should also matter. (conquering the imperial fleet-headquarter of a 
            pacifist-empire should be nearly useless))
        they are moveabel
            over a a long time period (avoid just fleeing in the alst minute) they can be relocated onto another planet
            (ther should be a ruined or offswitched dummy to reserve the space).
        they can be evcuated
            same as movement but with a penalty and faster (to allow fleeing in the last hour...)
        they are removable
            but removing takes time to avoid (burned earth) 
            or gives a huge penalty but is done instant to allow burned earth for a price (of course the player can avoid this 
            by blowing up the planet)

Empire parliaments and voting process
    of course there will be 100% despotic empires, but others will have parliaments (e.g federartions or democracys)
    votes
        votes are something between delegates and political power
        they are bound to an empire like in the UN or to a political faction
        votes are subdivided into 3 categories fanatic, normal and corrupt
        Basically a faction system: We have for example a communist faction,
        consisting to 22% of fanatics, 47% normals and 31% corrupt delegates, 
        because the empire has X percent corruption and Ypercent of it's communists
        pop are fanatic (even with 0% fanatic pops ther should be a decent amout of fanatic 
        communist delegates; with 100% fanatic pops ther should still be corrupt and normals;
        the same applies for corruption, 100% still leaves 1 or two fanatics and normals behind...)
    voting process
        fanatics always vote based on faction, normals can be moved for by faction standing points
        gained by supporting laws they favour (or diplomacy for national delegates). corrupts can be moved 
        the same way or with political power/points the costs for this action should depend on te proposal easy 
        to let eco-faction vote pro communist law, difficult to get capitalist to vote for said law.
        This is a pressure system so every invested point on one side adds pressure on that faction to vote
        into that direction (reluctance to vote fo someting could be implemented as a basic-pressure)
        (like starruler 2 or urban empire)
    vote distribution
        votes can be given by diffrent methods e.g.:
            controlled planets
            population
            Fleet size
            Army size
            recent war distribution
            science points output
            paid tribute
            cultural infuence
            fixed amout (the Xylan empire always gets 250 votes/seats/delegates)
            contribution to federation fleet
            power projection (resource that is gained in pressing demands in wars or diplomavy)
            etc.
        this votes are then given to either the empires or the respective sub unit (system administration)
        and are either filled with the main factions there or with nationalists form that sector
        The rounding process should ensure that not all seats are filled leaving a unaffiliated/random faction
        behind, which has no base pressure and it's fanatics split based on a random number, this independent
        faciton should spice things up
        also it should be possible to make a x-party system or solike the k or the us by rounding up seats,
        or giving all seats in 1 area two one faction (1 delegate per county in uk ....)
    unhappiness of empires
        if a parliament voting-process does not mirror the political views of it's member empires they will be 
        unhappy based on their relative size(or something like that, probably their "size" (militarists are comparing
        to other empires by fleet-size, capitalists by priduction etc.), and their main ehtics (if an nationalist empire 
        is part of a federation that only votes on popsize and does not allow national delegates they should be pissed)
    (simel exampel) example:
        the Rim-union consists of the Solar-federation, the empire of Xorg and the Vakun-republic
        The Rim-union has jurisdiction over trade and scientifical matters and so it'has an trade minister which controls 10% 
        of all votes and a science minister controlling 6% of all votes
        135 votes are fixed for the Vakun-republic 43 for the Xorg-empire, this seats are filled based on faction
        45 votes are fixed for the Xorg-empire and filled by national delegates
        342 votes are given for tribute. The Solar-federation contributed 56% the Vakun-republic 33% and the
        Xorg-empire 11% to the federation budget. This seats are filled by national delegates
        432 votes are given based on population and filled based on faction. The Solar-federation has 32 billon citizens,
        the Valkun-republic 23 billion and the Xorg-empire 28billion
        25 seats are give for fleet.strength. The Solar-federation has 65k fleet points, the Vakun-republic 34k and
        the Xorg-emipre 114k. This seats are filled with national delegates.
        The Solar-federation has 56% Capitalist-pops 12% Pacifist-pops 22% eco-freindly pops and 10% communist pops
        The Valkun-republic has 23% democratic-pops 35% communist pops and 42% industrial-(anti-eco)-pops
        The Xorg-empire has 54% warmonger-pops 23% communist-pops and 23% (eco-friendly pops)
            So we have:
            goverment
                1,022*0.10 trade-min     = 102.2        = 102
                1,022*0.06 science-min   = 61.32        = 61
                NO INDEPENDET DELEGATES FOR THE GOVERMENT!
            Vakun-fixed seats
                135*0.23 democrats      = 31.5          = 31
                135*0.35 commuinsts     = 47.25         = 47
                135*0:42 industrial     = 56.7          = 56
                independent (135-31-47-56)              = 1
            Xorg fixed
                43*0.54 warmonger       = 23.22         = 23
                43*0.23 communist       = 9.89          = 9
                43*0.23 ecos            = 9.89          = 9
                independent (43-23-9-9)                 = 2
            Xorg national fixed
                45 Xorg nationalists                    = 45
            Tribute
                342*0.56 Solar-national = 191.52        = 191
                342*0.33 Vakun-national = 112.86        = 112
                342*0.11 Xorg-national  = 37.62         = 37
                independent (like above)                = 2
            population (total 32+23+28=83)
                432*(32/83) Solar-fed   = 166.55       (= 166)
                    166*0.56 capital    = 92.96         = 92
                    166*0.12 pacifits   = 19.92         = 19
                    166*0.22 eco        = 36.52         = 36
                    166*0.10 communist  = 16.6          = 16
                    independent                         = 3
                432*(23/83) Vakun-rep   = 119.71       (= 119)
                    119*0.23 democrats  = 27.37         = 27
                    119*0.35 communists = 41.65         = 41
                    119*0.42 industrial = 49.98         = 49
                    independent                         = 2
                432*(28/83) Xorg-emp    = 145.73       (= 145)
                    145*0.54 warmonger  = 78.3          = 78
                    145*0.23 communist  = 33.35         = 33
                    145*0.23 ecos       = 33.35         = 33
                    independent                         = 1
                indepedent                              = 2
            fleet-srength (65k +34k +114k =213k)
                25*(65/213) Sol-national= 7.62          = 7
                25*(34/213) Vakun-natio = 3.99          = 3
                25*(114/213) Xorg-natio = 13.38         = 13
                independent                             = 2
            So the Rim-Union parliament consists of the following factions 
                goverment:
                    trade minister      = 102
                    science minister    = 61
                faction:
                    capitalists         = 92
                    pacifists           = 19
                    eco-friendly        = 78
                    communists          = 146
                    democrats           = 58
                    industrialists      = 105
                    warmonger           = 101
                national
                    Solar-national      = 198
                    Vakun-national      = 115
                    Xorg-national       = 95
                independent             = 15
            The Xorg empire would be happy about the fleet stregth-votingpart (because it is militaristic)
            while the Vakun would be unhappy because they are pacifist. This would be compensated
            by the vote per pop because the vakun are democatic
            The number of independent votes rises with the number of empires in the federation and the 
            number of factions in the empire.
            The voting system is configurable and can be changed by vote (unless te federation constitution 
            makes this impossible (for keeping fixed votes or so)). So manipulating the voting system and
            the faction ratio during the vote is important, especially if the parliament is only elected
            every 2o turns or longer.
    ministers
        if a specific resource (e.g science, production, intelligence) lies within the jurisdiction
        of an empire it can set up an minister, which gives certain bonuses.
        So every empire can only have one minister affecting it (if the federation has a science minister, 
        no subempire can have one, they are all affected by this minister)
        The jurisdiction is given based on key-laws
        if an empire is member of 2 federations with minister it will get either the average or no bonus
        the bonus of the minister scales with the amout of votes they have.
        this represents their political influence and is a trade off between the semi random communist
        economics minister and the bonuses. The random effect should always resilt in a lost of control for
        the player to make it a trade-off. (The political views of the ministers should usually be problematic,
        without having a fanatic capitalist minister in a 100% communist empire(maybe he distastes something
        or is ecofreindly or votes for to the benefit of his home-sector)

    Empires and faction pressure
        depending on the amout of pop-factions(size) in an empire the chances of pop-members switching 
        to that size changes.
        So communism spreads or capitalism spreads, this should be implemented as pressure, ifluenced by:
            +:
            pops changed faction last turn;
            members in faction;
            goverment influence;
            members in opposite faction (radicalization of empire)
            problems (strarvation breeds communism, richness capitalism)
            -: 
            already a signifikant mayority (to avoid singel faction-empires)
            goverment influence
            favoured laws passed (if you have communist laws, less pops join communism=
            opposite laws passed in the last X turns (if the empire just became communist
            the population should not demand capitalism after they pushed for just 5 years ago)
        The federation should downward pressure, based on an integration coefficent

Military
    structure
        tree like organized.
    Operation areas (aka south front)
        parts of the tree (commands) can get operation areas, to make ai patrolling and so on easier.
    coups
        military coups happen based on things like military independence, stability and hapiness
        in a coup a branch of the military-tree with a illoyal officer and more than x percent of the
        total military power decides to revolt every subbrancn follows based on officers and position
        in the tree (if the 5 star general revolts and the revolt reaches down to a lieutanant, he should
        not try to śtay loyal because, he is likely already surrounded by rebels.
        coup battels in the first turn should not be real battels, but dice rolling things instead to simulate
        the confusion. (people being stabben in their bunks and cremembers fighting crewmebers)
        Also based on the general military loyality the involved units should get damaged,
        because there were fights in the units, because one bob tried to stay loyal to the other side.

wars
    should have areas attached to them either war areas or civic protection zones
    should have special civilian-factions to allow retreat and evacuation fleets
        after the capitulation of an besieged planet
    should influence a prestige-ressource
        by battel results, retreating, not reliefing sieged planets (if promised to do so),
        or evacuating planets.
    should be able to be fought sport-like like flower wars for warrior-empires
    should create refugee streams (part of civilian-faction) heading for civic protection zones
        neighbouring empires or deeper into an empire away from the front. Either in refugee fleets
        or as traderoute-like streams
    should have fronts
        maybe identified by a tension modifier caused by battles, positioned ships, claims, 
        owner of neighbouring systems and tension in neighburing systems (maybe this could be
        expanded into a mechanic. Allowing to escalate and provoke border conflicts or avoid them)
    should have participants and a list with victories crimes and so on for every participant,
    making grudges after peace and so on easeier.

Contracts are basically empire like objects but betweet to empires and with more limited scope

Warpartys/allinaces/factions should be temporary empire like objects 
    which if not specifically changed (by a vote or so) dissolve themselve after a peace contract was made with the enemy
    but they can of course serve as the founding cell of an galactic federation

Pathfinding
    The problem can be simplified to a net-problem. Every warppoint is a node connected to other nodes. The connections have rules 
    and movement costs, so far so good. The connections in a system can simply be added to this connections. 
    Now the question is no longer what is the shortest route through x systems? The question is which is th shortest route
    trough x nodes? The algorithm acts like a passenger with a bus and a train ticket, planing the route based on to the distance
    to the next train or busstation and the cnnections between the stations. 
    Real trouble starts if the Ai is considering to open a womhole or not, because one wormhole changes everything and so this
    option has a lot of resulting options making a decision very complicated. probably the ai(algorithmical instance) should try to
    build a traffic network and hold back some emergency wormholes for military actions.

Computer controlled empires
    should have options to choose from and weight them based on their gain.
    the final decision should be randomized based on the weight.

Habitats    
    write colony for spaceships and stations class
    call them habitats

    they will have modules instead of buildings
    and can not be conquered by ground forces

Intelligence
    General
        Points are not stored and have to be spent every turn. But it is 
        possible to invest in multi-turn projects to build points up. 
        This allows weak empires to save up for an action, while sacrificing
        flexibility.
    Attack
        An attack is an action against a colonie, ship or base, with a result
        and points commited to the attack.
        Options could be destroy ship/base, increase Revolt points/unrest, 
        steal ship plans, sway election, kill leader, take over base, decrease
        loyality, steal fleet positions, lower enemy espionage defense(!!!)....
    Defense
        Colonies
            Colonies or system administrations(better systems, because it still
            allows attacks agaisnt backwater regions, while saving memory) have
            defensive points attached to them. 
        Ships and bases 
            get their defense from their crew size and special modules. And
            probably an empire wide budget distributed on all ships, also 
            protecting positions of the fleet or unit. So basically each bigger
            military unit (Truppenverband) could have it's own espionage budget
    Counter Espionage
        This is an action aimed at one of the bigg enemy worlds. If successful
        it gives them a negativ modifier for espionage actions against the 
        attacker. This allows a aimed defense against certain empires and should
        be cheaper the general defense
    Success chance
        General
            it is a leaking system so sucess is always possible it just becomes
            more and more unlikley with higher defense spending. There should
            be a penalty for spending to much points on one system and one 
            action, to avoid all-in attacks on single systems or objects, 
            because this would be an unfair attacker advantage.
        Colonies
            The chance depends on attack-points, defensive-points, size,
            population and buildings

Resistance, Revolt and Militia
    Resistance
        this non military resistance groups, showing up before an revolt.
        They commit acts of sabotage according to politcal views or reason
        for the resistnce. The range of this actions includes: stealing of
        military supplies; attacking goveremnt agencies(lowering political 
        point income); cultural or scientifical boykott (lowering culture and
        science points); lowering the loyality of other pops; lowering the
        happiness of other pops; destroing or damaging buildings and killing 
        members of pops. The are supressed by the milita and the intelligence 
        defense (the intelligence defense should be more efficent, forcing 
        players to build Intelligence buildings, before the almighty imperial 
        security agency crushes them unprepared)
    Revolt-points
        Revolt points are generated by illoyal pops and increase
        the CHANCE of an revolt
    Militia-points
        represent the local sector militia. Like the starploice they are
        generated by special buildings but not used until a revolt starst.
    Revolt
        In case of an revolt the militia automatically crushes the revolt.
        But it has also a chance of participating in the revolt,based on 
        diffrent factors(sector governor, laws, species revolting....) 
        the police and the pirates can also participate, based on diffrent
        factors the pirates appear (if they were not obliberated in the revolt)
        in the form of either small military/corporation ships or as randoized
        general pirate blueprints
    Draft
        They are equipped after a blueprint ratio. Like the star police
        (In the blueprint the representative/repressive abilities have to
        be balanced against battel abilities). They shoul be weaker then the
        real army but able to fill gaps (like imperial conscripts).
        A milita based military should be possible (the tradeoff is the lack
        of specialized troops, the increased risk of rebellion during war, 
        and the stronger troops of rebelling system-governors)

Piracy and Star-police
    point system
        piracy is represented by piracy points describing how ell established
        the pirates are they increase based on moved cargo and pirated cargo
        (so moved cargo attracts criminals and pirate cargo helps them, this 
        should allow things to spiral out of control. Probably the moved to 
        pirated cargo ration should be 1:10 or 1:100)
        they are destroyed with police points at a slow rate (10% of the police 
        points every turn?)
    police-points
        describes the number of active police ships in the system (this arrn't
        real ships unless they are conscripted just a number)
        increased by certain buildings to a level given by this buildings
        (so building x produces 20 police points and allows a maximum of 400 
        points, so after 20 turns the pool is at it's max)
    piracy factor
        based on the police to piracy points ratio a piracy factor is calculated
        (e.g. if the pirates outnumber the police 1:5 it is 100% if they are 
        even (1:1) it is 50% and if the police outnumbers them 5:1 it is 0%)
        Balancing the y-intercept and slope will be difficult.
        However the factor is never smaller the 0% or bigger then 100%.
    System maximum
        depending on system size(or planets in system) a certain number of 
        police-points should be enough to police the whole system,
        making more unnecessary. (technically a maxnumber of piracy-points
        depending on system size should do the trick.
    draft
        one or multiple blueprins and ratios schould be desigen for police ships
        allowing them to spawn as small or tiny ships in the system if drafted
        (a design factor should reduce the total amout of produced and max
        police-points based on the design. To discourage the player from 
        building warready police ships only. Diffrent zones like core;
        border, rim for administrations and corresponding blueprints or
        blueprint mixes should allow flexible design.
        (e.g. Tiny fast police-only-cruisers for the core and medium nearly 
        battel-ready ships for the borderregions.)

Empires should be identidied by pointers
    -> class has to be named empire

False flag
    allow ships to assume the identity of another empire
    the real identity should be detectable by boarding

Officers 
    attach small officer objects to ships/units giving small bonuses
    maybe with loyality values (rebellion)
    for simple ship/unit officers a competence value, a loyality value a name
    and a class (combat, navigation, repair/med) should be enough

Charachters
    * let characters retire and come back out of retirment under certain 
        cirsumstances (e.g. their homeworld beeing attacked)
    * they may refuse to come out of retirement plantig cabbages (diocletian) 
        and come back out if something happens
    * also allow for something like crypt and cryo statis worlds dedicated to 
        collect the remains of former rulers giving bonues for maintenace
        (every ruler should have their own tomb/retiemrnet palast/cryo vault,
        with buliding value to give it flair and track the investment
        (maybe allow to let old tombas fall into disrepair))
        Also think about inca living mummy things were every empereor gets a
        continent/colony on a planet

Write:
    Storage for trade connections (remember to process them in the system 
    and to implent the piracy-factor (float between 0 and 1). Find solution
    for multiple systems (maybe an average)

Finish:
    populations
        empire id
            update the empire id (either a empire pointer or a pointer to 
            a culture class)
        ethics
            revise the ethics, and build a system that can deal with a big 
            number of diffrent ethics (possible an pointer to an ethic class
            and values describing how much this pop likes this class)
    trade_connections
        add a blockade modifier allowing other empires to steal loot
        add something like a trade route class to allow tradec connections to
            be associated with hexes (one route 1+x connections) making 
            blockading/stealing goods on hex map possible
    buldings:
        add livingspace (for housing modules)
        police and militia-generation
    colonys
        add buildings_queue (pointer to buldings in buildingsqueu)
        something like a corruption level decreasing production?
    ground_units
    species
        add size (used for needed living space and ground battle)
    Global
        add Goods

Implementation pending -> no source file
    ground_unit
    species

Rewrite:
    planets

Consider
    buildings (add something to make them increase palnetary defence unless it is done in another way for example by checking in building X exists....)
